## Monday, October 16^th^

I’ve added a new file to the documentation, detailing all of the ‘components’ that I will be writing for the system. I have node, actor, and full conversation components. Theoretically, these will be able to be added to their respective types in a totally free, totally modular fashion. Presently, I’m just getting a hold of how I’m going to program it. I’ve added a bunch of TODOs, and have started on about half of the node components. Some are invokable, meaning that they trigger some effect when the node they’re attached to is reached, but some are just for data storage, to be accessed by other scripts which might want to make use of their properties (e.g. a `TimedChoice` component won’t ever trigger anything itself, but its data members will be necessary for the `DescantConversationController` scripts to reference when updating countdowns and moving to the next node).

I’m feeling really good about what I’ve got done so far, but it’s definitely going to be a lot of work. Maybe more than I thought. I think it might be best to push my prototype date a week or so into the future, giving me time to get these all working. Instead of doing user testing right away, I’ll run a seminar where folks can comment openly, and I can discuss it in a casual manner. Until then, I’ll keep coding away at these components.



## Monday, October 9^th^

The base system has finally been settled! I have the Editor script all done (save for a few QOL or functionality tweaks), the saving works pretty well, and I’m now getting started on the Runtime scripts. While I do that, I’ll be working on the unique aspects of Descant. That’s where the real creativity will start to shine through, and I’ll be journalling a lot more (I hope). Presently I’m going to try writing one of these journals every 2-3 commits. To coincide with my general pattern of milestones. I’ll also be ramping up my explanations in commit messages, going beyond the standard dry descriptions of changes.

I’m nearing the proof-of-concept milestone that I played out for myself originally. I’m feeling good about my progress, though I know that the ‘components’ system that I had dreamed up will take some finagling to get working. I think that my next steps for the project are to make a ‘build’ of the current package, build a super simple runtime testing interface, then get going on the ‘components’ system. On Jonathan’s recommendation, I’ll also try to classify and narrow my sights down to just 2-3 for each of the node, graph, and actor scopes. I’ll be doing that soon too I hope.